She was always...
Kato had always...
"Friday"
Okay, ready to go to our team meeting, Kato?
It seems like you completely fell for it,
I was only pretending to sleep.
You say that, but you were actually
sleeping, weren't you, Aki?
I really was only going to pretend to sleep at first!
Add color to the monotony of every day
Like the gentle breeze blowing by
I'm sure this miracle of meeting you that day
Will shine a light on my tomorrow
Even my moments of weakness
I believe can move someone's heart
Beyond that sky over there
I believe the world I imagined is out there
I open my heart like a window
I want to learn even more about you
Because I have been with you more than anyone
How to Raise a Boring Girlfriend Flat
AUDIOVISUAL ROOM
What about Eriri and Kasumigaoka-Senpai?
I told you, they aren't coming today!
The Girl Who Didn't Break the Flag
-Did you?
-Now, come with me!
We're going to actually use the AV room?
Yes, you'll see why soon.
Aki?
I actually planned to print this out on paper,
but my printer ran out of ink.
I should have known.
In other words, depicting some rawness
in the heroines,
having them express complex emotions
and shifts in attitudes,
is the crux of how you create a fictional character
you can truly fall in love with.
I see.
The game I originally planned at the start
was about bringing the heroine's charms
to the surface.
My plan was to make a main heroine
that would make your heart race.
Really?
But what we ended up with was something
completely different from the original plan.
It was an epic, emotional romance.
Of course, I was happy with the new direction.
And with the talents of Utaha-Senpai and Eriri,
the game ended up becoming a success.
It's just...
Could I ask you something?
What is it, Kato?
What are these documents, exactly?
Kato, did you skip the title of the first page?
I don't mean that.
This is obviously the proposal for our next game!
Why are you showing this to me?
Kato! Are you just skimming the proposal
I poured my heart and soul into?
It's because this game's main heroine
will also be Meguri Kanou!
You know, the character based on you!
Do you really think I would be happy
to participate in this project?
I don't know. I really don't.
But if you don't come aboard,
this project will never come together.
Even if everyone else joins,
without you, this game can't be made.
I don't think you need to be so
adamant about that.
Being the model for your main heroine
isn't much of a role.
What does it even mean?
I have my regrets.
We had the best team members,
and we made the best game.
Everyone did a spectacular job.
Eriri, Utaha-Senpai, Michiru,
and also you.
Everyone continued to give it their all
until the very end.
That's right. Everyone worked hard.
So I don't need to do any more.
There's no reason to keep going.
But I still haven't taken you to that place.
That place?
The place beyond where our hard work took us.
A place you feel happy from the bottom of your heart.
So I'm a little sad about that.
I've come down from the initial excitement.
Because I was the only one who didn't give it their all.
I gave up running at the very end,
and just stood still.
That's why I want a second chance!
This time, I won't wake you from your dream!
I will let you finish the race running!
I will make it so you won't want to quit
being a game maker or geek!
That's right, being the main heroine was just a ploy.
Just a good excuse!
But this time, I just want to be able
to celebrate with you!
In that case,
I have no other choice but to make a proposal
that you can't help but want to join!
Then why
would you go with a proposal
filled with your cringey fantasies?
Is this really what you think
I would want to participate in?
This will revolutionize the dating sim genre!
Only I could make this happen!
Really?
I think what you want to do is pretty common.
Did you actually read the proposal
I poured my blood into?
The crux of this proposal is
to take what everyone's thought of
and to combine it with the ideas nobody has ever--
That's it, Aki.
That's what, Kato?
You want to make a game
on that scale with this staff?
PLANNING: AKI TOMOYA
It looks like there's one person who is doing
the planning, writing, and directing.
Is that just my imagination?
Don't worry, I will have you assist the person
planning and directing the game.
What? I don't want to do all that work.
There's no room for complaints when we're trying
to revolutionize the dating sim genre!
Aki...
Please, Kato.
Please, just one more time.
Be my main heroine as well as
my second in command!
I want you to carry this Dōjin Team with me!
Could you clear one thing up for me?
Yes.
Have you told Eriri that you are
making me the main heroine again?
Not yet.
Do you think that's okay?
Can you really make this decision without telling Eriri?
Look, Kato,
I am going to ask you this very tentatively.
But is the reason why you've been mad at me
because Eriri and I have gotten close lately
and you have some feelings about that?
It's not some messy situation
like you might find in a dating sim, is it?
What are you talking about, Aki?
Right? I didn't think so!
What? Did you think that I liked you or something?
Have you forgotten all the things you've done to me?
But, you know, it happens a lot in dating sims!
Heroines who just fall for you even though
you haven't done anything to deserve it!
That's probably because people like you
who don't know the real world
are making those types of games.
Okay! I get it! I was stupid! Please forgive me!
I mean, what else am I supposed to do
when you say something ridiculous?
Really, I'm sorry, Kato.
It's fine. I just want to erase that from my memory.
No, not that. I mean about last year.
Last year?
I'm sorry I didn't come talk to you.
I'm sorry I didn't reach out.
I'm sorry for failing you
as a friend.
That's...
But thank you.
I'm so happy now.
Why?
Because you love Blessing Software
even more than I do!
You loved it so much, you couldn't forgive me
for giving up on the Winter Comiket!
The thought of that just makes me so happy!
I'm about to burst!
But at the same time, I feel so bad for failing you.
Thank you, Kato.
What are you...?
What are you talking about?
Thank you.
Thank you, Kato.
And also,
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Aki, you know,
I've had to hold it in all this time.
I'm sorry.
You can throw your apologies around all you want,
it's not making me feel any better.
Oh, right.
What are you smiling about?
That just makes me even more mad.
We're friends, aren't we?
Eriri, Kasumigaoka-Senpai, and Ms. Hyodo too.
Yeah, also me.
If we're friends, then there shouldn't be any secrets,
or hidden feelings, or decisions made behind our backs!
Shouldn't we be able to talk to each other
about the things troubling us?
You're right.
I was wrong.
It was fun for me.
The Dōjin Team was a lot more fun
than I thought it would be.
Kato...
That's why being away from you
and everyone these past two months
has been really hard.
I'm sorry.
I told you.
Your apologies sound cheap.
Do you really think this new arrangement will work?
Well, it might be hard at first, but if we just
take it slow and get used to things...
I still don't think an amateur like me
could be the team's second in command.
Especially when every other member
is so impressive.
Don't worry!
Besides, your leader isn't anyone special.
Oh, sorry. Could you grab that onion?
Why an onion?
I was thinking about making curry for dinner.
You're going to cook dinner?
Because I figured our meeting tonight
is going to run long.
You think it's going to go long?
Which means you're only going to ask
Kasumigaoka-Senpai to write the main route?
Yeah, since Utaha-Senpai just started university.
She also has her new novel she's busy with.
Even though you pushed
a whole game on her last year
when she was busy with her
university entrance exams and novel?
But even if it were just one route,
I have high expectations that it
will be her greatest work!
But if the rest of the script
is going to be done by you,
then won't there be a big difference in quality?
We have to be looking forward!
Well, I suppose we'll just need our leader
to do his best.
All right, I'm going to go pay for these now.
Lend me some clothes to wear later, okay?
You're just fully intending on spending the night?
So is Eriri still in a slump?
Yeah, so it might be hard to ask her
to do the art for all the characters.
But even if we were to add another artist,
they would have to be as good as Eriri,
and not already affiliated with any Dōjin Team.
Is there someone you know
who fits that description you could ask?
Thank you for pointing out our harsh reality.
Where are your parents today?
They're actually in Nagano for a memorial service.
They won't be back for two days.
Oh, this again.
Pardon me.
You really aren't worried about anything, are you?
Like I said before,
our Cherry Blessing
did end up becoming a great game.
But it wasn't the game I planned to make.
It wasn't like my game idea
was what made it great.
Well, you pretty much got carried by
Kasumigaoka-Senpai and Eriri.
That's why our next project needs to get back to
Blessing Software's original vision.
A game that draws people in
without any gimmicks.
Really?
More character-driven than our last game,
but you would still be moved
by the simple story.
We'll grab the players with your true charms--
How's this?
Seems good to me.
It's just that games that focus
on communicating with the heroines,
tend to rely heavily on a system.
Needing to manage the protagonist's
health and schedule,
getting three options for date locations and gifts,
pressing the screen to kissy kissy with the girls.
Really? That's great.
Yes, games like that are great.
But I want to make a story-centric
adventure game instead.
I'm thinking that would be the Tomoya Aki brand.
What do you think, Kato?
I don't know.
Come on, this is important!
I mean, I love stories about the girls I love!
You really don't feel embarrassed when it comes
to the two-dimensional, do you, Aki?
Anyway, just listen to me for now.
Okay, okay.
Yes, this is hard.
It might turn out worse than our previous game.
It might not even sell.
Fans may flame it.
But still, I--
You had some on your face.
-This is what the game would be like.
-You mean, just a regular school dating sim?
Yes. No past memories. No incurable illnesses.
No time travel.
No cheap alternate universes either.
We'll simply offer ordinary conversations,
small events, and the cuteness of our heroines.
But that's pretty much what they do with this game.
No, there's something
this game falls short in for me.
Two things, in fact.
Really?
One is the day-to-day conversations.
The conversation scenes between the heroine
and player account for most of the game,
but it's incredibly boring and cringe-worthy
and utterly indefensible.
We'll have to be careful about that.
The second is the heroine's reaction.
It's way too one-dimensional.
Tsundere, younger sister, older sister,
they all follow the tired templates.
But I thought templates were important.
Yes, they're important. Really important.
But, Kato, heroines are people too.
Depending on the time they've spent with you
and the mood they're in,
it's natural their reaction would change.
Attitudes change when feelings develop.
The way you talk with old friends
changes too.
And very subtly and in steps.
Yes, they can't change abruptly either.
If they do, the player will be taken out of it.
That's why it must be gradual.
By depicting these heroines as human
through variation, we can...
Kato?
Aki...
Could you sit over there a second?
I'm already sitting down.
You're right, Aki. Human relationships change.
That's right.
Depending on the time spent together
and their changing feelings,
I think they need to change their
attitudes and actions to reflect that.
Yet I don't understand why your attitude
didn't change at Winter Comiket.
If you knew all this,
why couldn't you do that for me?
Have we not gotten close?
I thought you already forgave me for that.
I realized you didn't understand
anything at all,
which made me mad all over again!
Wait, let's calm down, Kato!
You said the game's heroines were human,
didn't you?
That's right. That's exactly right.
I'm human just like the main heroine.
Oh, I'm starting to cry again.
By the way, what is with this title
How to Raise a Boring Heroine?
I know you've told me
multiple times how bland I was,
but I never thought you'd make it the title!
I can change it if you don't like it!
You know,
you can't even read my reactions.
Do you really think you have what it takes
to make such a delicate game?
Well, that's...
I can only say that I'll do my best.
Never mind your effort, I think you just lack
the fundamental sensitivity.
I'm studying what I can.
Aren't you in some way trying to do something
even more difficult from our last game?
More importantly, Kato...
What is it?
You're taking a bath so you can relax.
Instead of scolding me, why don't you
just sit back and enjoy your bath?
Be quiet.
Whose fault do you think this is anyway?
I'm sorry.
I told you your apologies sound cheap today!
It's not that I really wanted to bring my phone
into the bath with me!
So, what is going to happen now?
I guess I'll need to start by trying to get
the other members onboard.
Do you think Kasumigaoka-Senpai
will still work with us after she graduates?
I guess all I can do is express my sincerity to her.
Does that mean
confessing your feelings for her?
Please go to sleep, Ms. Kato.
And how are you going to address
Eriri's slump?
That...
We may just have to wait that one out.
Do you really think all she needs is time?
I don't know, but I don't know
what else to do either.
Should you be this focused on me
when you haven't figured anything out yet?
Just go to sleep.
Don't blame me for whatever happens, Aki.
Then what should I do, then?
I don't know either.
Honestly.
You're all over the place today, Kato.
You're right.
Hey, Aki.
What is it?
When tomorrow comes,
I want you to forget how I was today.
Yeah, I know.
But I won't.
Oh, I almost forgot.
What is it now?
Here, Aki.
It's obviously obligatory, but here you go anyway.
Well, thanks.
Okay, I'll really go to sleep now.
Okay.
-Good night.
The miracle on the hill, my heart raced
My story began that day
I was on the sidelines, having nothing special at all
But I somehow got the courage
Success doesn't matter
If it's only a game
Get back to those lacking days
Don't worry about talent or context
Even the boring days are reality
Please! Please! Don't stop!
A rhapsody to cheer me on
To an unknown world
Because you pull me forward by the hand
Even the coldness of every day
Is starting to look brighter
I want to become the heroine
I have real dreams now
Sakura Diaries with you